>> Hello.
I'm the engineering manager
for Client Management and System Imaging
and Address Book server in Mac OS X server.
Let me invite Tony Graham to talk to
you about managing home directories.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you, Yusip.
My name is Tony Graham, I'm a systems engineer in
the education group, and I'm hoping to talk to you
about home directory, it's a very exciting topic, I know.
Some of you are probably experienced system administrators.
How many here spend a lot of time
in Mac OS X server home directories?
[ Laughter ]
>> It's home directories people, it's not that funny.
OK, good. So we want to get in and talk
about the various options for setting up.
[ Phone ringing ]
[ Laughter ]
>> Oh boy.
Hello?
>> [ Little girl ]
Daddy, I can't find my dolphin report.
>> [ Presenter ]
Your dolphin report is your Documents folder, sweetheart.
>> [ Little girl ]
Where is my Documents folder?
>> [ Presenter ]
In your home directory.
>> [ Little girl ]
Oh, thanks.
Daddy?
>> [ Presenter ]
Yeah, sweetie.
>> [ Little girl ]
Where do home directories come from?
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
>> [ Presenter ]
Babe, I've got a bunch of people in the room
here, they're waiting for me talk to them
about something important, I really don't have
>> [ Little girl ]
Please.
[ Laughter ]
>> [ Presenter ]
OK, but I've got to make this quick.
You remember the story I told you about the
little girl who found the house in the woods?
>> [ Little girl ]
Goldilocks?
>> [ Presenter ]
No, no, no, it's Goldidots.
>> [ Little girl ]
Why Goldidots?
>> [ Presenter ]
Because daddy can't draw, sweetheart.
Anyway, Goldidots had this wonderful home,
it had all of her favorite stuff in it.
And she loved her home, it was made just for her.
>> [ Little girl ]
Oh boy, I sure love my new home.
[ Laughter ]
>> [ Presenter ]
And it was the greatest home ever.
The problem is something terrible happened.
>> [ Little girl ]
The bank foreclosed on her loan?
[ Laughter ]
>> [ Presenter ]
No, it was even worse.
[ Thunder ]
>> [ Little girl ]
Oh no.
>> [ Presenter ]
Yeah, it was terrible.
>> [ Little girl ]
So what did she do?
>> [ Presenter ]
Well luckily she had a time machine, so she
went back in time and got all her stuff back.
[Thunder. Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
>> Problem was, it was bound to happen again.
[ Thunder ]
>> [Little girl] Oh no, not again.
[ Laughter ]
>> [ Presenter ]
So she realized she needed some time to think and plan
for the future, she checked herself into a local motel.
And the neat thing about the motel is it had everything
she needed for a brief stay: a place to sleep,
place to rest, place to think things through.
[ Laughter ]
>> So she made a few phone calls, got
things rolling, and then checked out.
Downside of course being as soon she
left, they threw all of her stuff away.
[ Laughter ]
>> But her new home was built in a safe place free
of disaster, and she thought that was wonderful.
Problem was, it's still kind of hard
to get to, it's kind of far away.
>> [Little girl] Now my home is safe over on Server
Valley, but it sure takes a while to get there.
>> [ Presenter ]
So she realized it would take her a long time to get there
through the mountain, she had a tunnel dug just for her.
And this was great because any
time she wanted to get anything
from her home, she could just go through the tunnel.
So if she was hungry, she could go through
the tunnel and get something to eat.
[ Laughter ]
>> And if she was thirsty, she could go
through the tunnel and get something to drink.
No matter what she needed, all she had to do...
[ Laughter ]
>> ...was go through the tunnel
and she could get what she needed.
So that would have worked out really well for most people,
I mean, most dots, except then she Twittered about it
or Tweeted about it, and as soon as her friends found out...
>> [Little girl] Oh, I want one of those.
>> [Other children] Me too.
>> Me too.
>> [ Presenter ]
So now she had a new problem because it wasn't so
much like a truck, it was more like a series of tubes.
And as soon as all of her friends wanted to use it
too, it got kind of crowded and slowed things down.
So she realized she needed something
maybe a little bit more mobile.
[ Music ]
>> [ Presenter ]
This seemed like it wasn't solve her problem because
she could keep the stuff that she used all the time
with her no matter where she went and then still
keep her awesome house in the safe mountains.
Problem was, she needed help filling it with all her stuff.
So she went and asked her best friend, HomeSync.
>> [Little girl] Hey HomeSync,
what are you doing this weekend?
[ Laughter ]
>>[ Presenter ]
HomeSync didn't have a very good answer so he was stuck
helping her load all of her stuff into this new mobile home.
[ Laughter ]
>> And in fact, probably stuff for life helping her
unload it any time she came up with anything new.
But once all her stuff was put in her new mobile home,
Goldidots hopped in and lived happily ever after.
[ Music ]
>> [Little girl] So is that where
home directories come from?
>> [ Presenter ]
Yes, sweetheart, that's where.
>> [Little girl] Oh, I thought it was built from
the user template folder in /System/Library.
[ Laughter and applause ]
>> [ Presenter ]
It is sweetheart, unless you have a network home, and then
it's built from the user template folder on the server.
>> [Little girl] And if the server is not a Mac?
>> [ Presenter ]
Well if the server is not a Mac then you get a
basic Home folder, just a desktop, a library,
and then if you download stuff with
Safari it'll make you a downloads folder.
>> [Little girl] Oh OK, thanks Dad.
Dad?
>> [ Presenter ]
Yes, sweetheart.
>> [Little girl] Where do babies come from?
[ Laughter ]
>> [ Presenter ]
Go ask mommy, sweetheart.
[ Laughter ]
>> [Little girl] OK, thanks Dad.
[ Cheers and applause ]
>> [ Presenter ]
So I apologize for that interruption,
I'd kind of hoped to walk you
through the various options that
you'd have for Home folders.
I do have some slides, maybe I can work
through them quickly and get us caught up.
Many of you said that you have Mac OS X installed on
your computers, how many of you Mac OS X users out here?
Many, OK, very many.
Most of you probably have seen then a local home that
gets created for you when you create your first account.
And that goes into the /Users folder, and
it's a wonderful way to use your computer
because it's the easy way a folder is created for
you automatically when you create your first account,
you create new accounts, new folders are created for them.
It's very well tested.
So your application developers are probably first
going to test their applications against this scenario,
and anything else would be further on down the list.
And it's very uniform, so if somebody
comes in from another organization,
they're likely to have their Home
folder in their /Users folder as well.
Downside to this being that there's no separation
necessarily between the operating system
and the user data, and that can be a real advantage.
And the other downside being that everything
is located on that one hard disc mechanism,
so if something terrible happens,
you could potentially lose it all.
But backups are very easy, you can use Time Machine,
you can use any number of backup applications
to protect your or your users' files.
There's a variation since Leopard on
the local home called a guest home,
and it's sort of the same thing except
there's no password, no admin privileges,
and it makes a new Home folder from
that system library user template.
If you want to customize the user
experience for the guest user,
you can modify that folder carefully,
modify that folder as well.
But the better way to manage that experience is using
Workgroup Manager in conjunction with directory services,
so you don't have to touch every machine, and so that
you don't have to build those changes into an image.
Nice thing about the guest account is as soon as
they log out, that Home folder is thrown away.
Up to Leopard, probably a lot of you had
developed custom solutions for doing this,
now it's baked into the operating system.
So if we take that local home and we
stick it on a file server somewhere
and manage the directory service records a little
bit differently so your Mac knows where to look
for them, you can host that home on a server.
And there are a number of protocols you can use to get to
it, and you use that Home folder live over the internet.
So where your applications would write things to
Preferences or Application Support or your Documents folder,
it's still doing exactly that, but
that folder is on a network share now.
The advantage to that being you can use any Mac connected to
your organization, login, you have the same user experience.
There are some disadvantages, your performance is going to
be affected by the speed and reliability of your network.
And for some of you, that's great; and
for others, may not solve your problem.
And of course it does require a
network with supportable machines
that leaves your organization aren't
going to be able to easily participate.
Backup though is really easy, you get an
enterprise backup solution on a server.
You've got a single place, single source for all
of your user's data, and you back that stuff up.
So I mentioned there are a number of protocols for
getting to your Home folder on the server, AFP, SMB,
and NFS being the ones that you're likely to use.
We tend to recommend AFP if your client
is a Mac and your server is a Mac.
We recommend often SMB if the server is a Windows server,
it sometimes gives you better performance,
or often gives you better performance.
NFS is used probably by some of you if you're in
scientific computing environment or using clusters.
Because there's no user name and
password exchanged ordinarily,
with NFS there are some security
ramifications to using that.
And what's nice about Snow Leopard, slight change
in Snow Leopard, maybe not such slight changes,
dramatic improvements in the performance of these
network file systems, especially SMB and NFS.
So a mobile account is sort of a
hybrid between the two, not quite.
You imagine the directory records that you have in your
server that take care of identity and password information
that get synced down to your portable machine so that you
can use it offline, you can still manage the experience
from a central location, but the
home directory is on that computer.
You get the performance, the compatibility
of having a local home.
We synchronize the user records so password changes can be
managed centrally and preferences can be managed centrally.
But if we take that one step further, your option is
a portable home, that's essentially the same thing
where the directory record is synchronized, but we
also synchronize the files in the home directory.
And the advantage to this is it can be used offline.
So synchronization happens when you're
connected, when you're disconnected,
new files created in that mobile account
are synchronized back to the network home
when you reconnect, and it works both ways.
The disadvantage, or a potential disadvantage to this is
that there's sometimes issues with conflict resolution.
So a file gets changed on the server
and on the portable machine.
You're probably going to end up presenting the UI to the
user that says, Which of these files do you want to keep?
And for some of you that is not a big deal, and
for others that presents training opportunities.
[ Laughter ]
>> Now backup is actually pretty nice here too
because you can do both, backup a network Home folder
with an enterprise server-based
backup solution, and have your users,
your customers backup their own
machines using local backup software,
use Time Machine, use an external drive, or whatever.
You could even issue them a drive to take with them if
they don't spend a lot of time in your organization.
And I think you'll sense a theme as we talk through these
various options today that for many of our customers,
we think this is the best possible approach because
you've got the speed and compatibility of that local home,
but you've got the central management and
occasional or often access to a network home.
And in fact, we have some customers
that do both, they have a network home
and a portable so they could do the portable HomeSync.
And this is great for people who primarily use desktop
machines but will occasionally checkout a laptop
or portable computer from you to leave with.
You can synchronize that network home to that portable.
They leave, they come back, the reverse
happens, and then they go back to living
on their network-attached desktop machine.
And the reverse is actually kind of a nice use scenario
too, we've got folks that live on a portable computer
with a portable home and it's synchronized to their network
home, but there may be use scenarios where they want
to be able to walk in and use another machine in your
organization, in a lab, in a presentation experience
like this, and they don't necessarily want to take their
portable plug-in audio and video and power and network,
but they want to have access to all their files.
And so they can use a network account from that machine, and
you have control, you have the option as an administrator
to decide which of these options
you present to your customers.
So there is a variation or enhancement to the
portable home option called an external account,
and what's nice about this is you use it in conjunction
with an external drive, it's going to be a FireWire drive
or a USB drive or maybe even a flash drive.
It also works with MacBook Pros in Target Disk Mode.
So if you have a student who lives on their MacBook Pro,
they can put that in Target Disk Mode when they connect
to one of your desktop machines, and continue to
use that user account on your desktop machine
but when they leave they take all their stuff with them.
The nice thing about this is it reduces login sync because
their home is pretty much with them on their drive,
so when they log in they don't have to wait for
their home to be synchronized down to a new machine.
And they can take that disk to another Mac that's off of
your network that they also use, maybe a machine at home,
and use that external account with the machine at home.
With portable homes and external accounts, FileVault is an
option for you, and if you're going to be taking your home
with you on an external drive file, might be something you
would want to encourage or require depending on your use.
And again, like portable homes and mobile accounts, you
can manage the user experience through Managed Preferences.
So this can be an external drive used for your FireWire.
New in fact in Snow Leopard is
FAT formatted external drives.
So if you buy a disk from Office Depot or a flash
drive or whatever, you don't necessarily have
to reformat that in HFS+ before you can use it.
So we've got a demonstration lined up
for you next, and I guess that is me,
so I'm going to switch over to a demo machine over here.
What we wanted to show is a variation on the
external account which is pretty straightforward.
How many of you have seen demonstrations
of external accounts?
Set previous, developer conferences?
Yes, so probably half of you.
We didn't want to show you exactly the same demo,
so we decided to show you exactly the same demo.
But we have a little twist, and
that is that this user account
on my flash drive is actually an administrator account.
The machine I'm going to connect it to does
not have an administrator account on it.
So you can imagine this use scenario where you allow
guest users to your user machines and they get erased
when they log out, but when you have to work on
the machine, install software and configure it,
you attach your external account to it, and
your administrator account becomes available.
This is also handy if for whatever reason your network
isn't available, so your network admin accounts won't work.
So I'm logging in as an administrator on this
machine, this is bound to my directory system
but it doesn't necessarily require
that the network be attached.
And I wanted to show you a couple of things.
The first thing I wanted to show you is the
command that you need to use to make this happen.
What I didn't show you was the
creation of the external account.
For those of you who haven't seen this done before,
you essentially login to a machine that's had their user
account enabled for external accounts using mobility.
And it asks you where you want that
portable home to be, you just say,
I want it on the external drive, and it creates it there.
But that's not going to be an administrator account,
and administrators are by design required to be members
of the admin group on each desktop machine,
especially if they're not network connected.
So the command that you're going to use to take an arbitrary
local or networked account and add to the admin group
for your workstation is fairly simple, and I've
got a fancy Steve Hamon-like service written here
to type this in so you can see it.
It's the DS edit group command.
You're going to use the -O flag followed by edit.
You're going to edit this group
record, you're going to add a user,
in this case the user's name is Tony,
and he's being added to the admin group.
This is by the way, the same command that you would use
if you have network users that
want sudo access their own machine.
You'd want to add them to the local
admin group on their own machine.
And once you run this command,
you can check it fairly easily,
there's a DSCL command that will let
you navigate your directory services.
We'll go into local default groups.
And in here the list of the local groups on this
machine, and we'll pop into admin and do a read.
And as you may notice, my account is a
member of this particular local group.
So I wanted to show you another
couple of things while we're at it.
In System Preferences under Accounts - really just two
accounts right now; my external account which goes with me
when I leave, and the guest account which is
currently disabled but I could enable that for login,
and then you've got a machine that
basically erases itself when someone leaves,
and requires you with your external drive to administer.
You can imagine there's some security
advantages to this too as far as remote access.
And then one twist on this as well
is if I get info on my flash drive,
you'll see that it's a FAT32 formatted USB drive,
and there's a user's folder on here with my account
and it is in fact a FileVault account,
and that has additional advantages.
In addition to my data being private and the
applications that I have on here being private,
my keychain has passwords saved for things like
controlling the server, the screen sharing,
controlling a server password has been saved in my keychain.
And say if I lose this disk, it is protected.
So that's it for the demo.
I think I'll turn the stage over to, I like to
describe him as Germany's answer to David Hasselhoff,
this is Educational Consulting Engineer, Armin Briegel.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you, Tony.
>> I am not going to sing and I
guess you will be grateful for that.
[ Laughter ]
>> My name is Armin Briegel, I'm Consulting Engineer
for Apple Education National Resource,
specializing on classroom management.
And I'm going to take what Tony and Emily introduced to
us and go more into depth, introduce some new features.
>> [Amrmaiiln B Brirnieggeerl on slide]
>> I've been anagrammed.
[ Laughter ]
>> Don't leave your slides unattended.
>> So as Tony mentioned early, network home
directories are a really great feature,
but we really store everything in that Home folder.
I checked on my work machine just now, and
I have 260,000 files in my Home folder.
And I guess you will probably get
pretty close to those numbers.
And there are things in there that are big, things
that are important, things that are less important.
But each piece of this goes through the series
of cubes to your network server back and forth.
And not everything is traffic that you
necessarily want to have on the network,
essentially the caches, Safari
caches, all of the other caches.
Other things like movie files, audio files, are
really sensitive towards bandwith and latency.
You probably want to have them locally.
iMovie for example, won't let you edit projects
that are on a network home directory, iMovie 09.
So there used to be some hacks with login scripts where
you'd replace that particular folder with a symbolic link
and redirect it to a local folder so
you would get the local performance.
And even since Leopard, we have kind of made that
official and we give you managed preferences settings
to get these features and redirect particular folders
to local folders even though the
rest of the folder is on a network.
The way you can get that is in
Workgroup Manager in the Details tab.
You first want to add a very special feature.
You go to System/Library/Core Services.
There's an application called Manage Client
App, and if you add that in the Details tab,
it will give you a whole list of
new features that you can manage.
You can manage them without that, but it's much easier
because you get the descriptions and it looks more clearer.
One of them is Folder Redirection, and if
we select that, it looks somewhat like this,
and I can zoom in a little to make that view.
The default one that gets created when you do
that for the first time is actually redirecting the
Library/Caches folder to a local folder in your Temp folder.
We use the Temp folder because that gets cleared at
Restart and it's really not very important.
You can see there's a percent at
in here, that gets replaced at login
with the user's name who's currently
logged in, that's a placeholder.
So each user gets their own folder in the Temp folder
so they don't overwrite each other's
stuff or see each other's stuff.
The other redirection info that I
put in here, it's a different action.
The first one is deleteAndCreateSymLink, because I don't
care about the Caches folder, we can recreate those.
We may care about the user's Movies
folder or the users may care about that.
So in this case, we're doing a Rename.
We're renaming the Movies folder in the network home
directory and replacing it with a symbolic link.
That points to Users/Shared/Username/Movies.
So if they want to continue to work on their project, they
need to come back to the same machine over and over again,
which is one of the advantages of network home directories.
But I can move from machine to machine.
We're negating that here.
But on the other hand, we can edit Movies and
work with them in the network home directory.
Of course if you use portable home directories, a lot
of those issues go away, so that's another alternative.
Instead of redirecting, just use portable home directories.
I'll be working locally all the time, anything I change and
work on will eventually by synchronized up to the server.
But the synchronization process introduces
another bottleneck and challenge for the network
because the client has to figure out which files have
changed locally, which files have changed on the server,
and what do I need to copy back and forth, what do I need
to get from the server, what do I need to move up with.
And before Leopard what we did was, we remounted the user's
network home directory and we scanned it to see what changed
since the last synchronization, and that
obviously puts a lot of load on the server,
all the metadata requests from the HomeSync process.
So what we introduced in Leopard is called server-side
file tracking, and it uses FSEvents on the server
to keep a database of files that changed on the server.
And the client actually uses the same FSEvents on the
client and keeps a list of files that change there.
And when a client attempts the HomeSync, it will go through
a certain port, 2336, actually it 6uses SSH over that port
to try to get that file out of
my home directory on the server.
And if I can get that, it will use that to compare,
and I can avoid the expensive scanning
of the network home directory.
It's a setting and server admin that you have to enable.
And because it uses SSH or SEP to copy that file
downwards, please remember that the user needs
to have a valid shell assigned,
otherwise this part will fail,
and the HomeSync process will revert back to the scanning.
FileVault.
You're taking data along with you, and depending
on your organization or what kind of data it is,
you may be required to encrypt that data.
In general, encrypting data that
you take with you either on laptops
or on external accounts is a very wise
idea, and FileVault works very well.
FileVault is an option whether you use mobile
accounts, synchronized mobile accounts,
or portable report home directories, or external
accounts, we can use it in any of those flavors.
You can make a master password a requirement.
A master password gives you a backdoor
password in case the user leaves
without telling you his or her password, or they forget.
And obviously you can enforce the usage
of FileVault with Managed Preferences.
Another thing that we gain when we use FileVault,
because it's an image on the laptop's hard drive
or usually it's the laptop, it could be
a desktop machine as well, is quotas.
We can enforce quotas from the server
locally, and there's two options.
One is you can set arbitrary numbers depending on the
machine or the user that logs in, or you can take the quotas
out of Workgroup Manager that have been assigned per
user and enforce them locally using the FileVault image.
Tony mentioned the guest account earlier, we introduced
that in Leopard and that's a really nice feature,
you just have the generic account, it gets wiped at logout.
You can mange the guest account using computers
or computer list, Managed Preference settings.
And you can apply managed settings, you can
do some things with the user template as well.
But sometimes you may want to have
a more varied user experience
or a more specific user experience
depending on the task that's at hand.
Imagine you have a classroom and students come in for one
class, you may want the management settings to be different
for that class than for another, and then you
won't get very far with the single guest account.
Using mobile accounts, we can actually
create kind of multiple guest accounts.
If you use a non-syncing mobile account
that logs in, creates an empty account
from the user template, and then the user works on that.
And you can have all users logging in to the same and
you get multiple copies of the same mobile account.
And then in Workgroup Manager there's a setting that
says expire this account after a certain number of days,
which means if the user hasn't logged in for certain
number of days, well then delete that account,
I don't want it messing up all of my Macs.
If I set that to 0, it means delete this account at
logout, which is basically guest account behavior.
And I can use the local template to do some management and
MCX, and I can apply individual Managed Preferences settings
to each of those accounts to basically
gain multiple guest accounts.
We updated the sync UI, it's not called login and logout
sync and background sync anymore, we changed that name,
it is now the preference sync and the HomeSync.
The reason we changed that is because
we gave you more granular control
and you can now decide when these synchronizations happen.
So calling it login and logout sync if it may not happen
at login and logout didn't really make sense anymore.
Nevertheless, we give you two options of
doing this, and they're basically the same,
but one is intended to for all the files that are probably
open in the background, preferences, files, databases, mail,
and they can't be synced while the user is working.
And the other one, the HomeSync, is intended for the
files that can be synced while the user is working.
And even though the default settings in Snow Leopard
when you open Workgroup Manager has all of these enabled,
you want to disable background
manually for the preference sync.
And then for the HomeSync you basically have the control.
So if your users are complaining that the logout sync is
taking too long and they don't want to sit there waiting
for the progress bar to proceed, you can disable the logout
sync, and it will take longer at login, or vice versa.
We updated the conflict resolution dialogue
and it now actually gives you a QuickLook
preview of the file in question.
[ Applause ]
>> We've also kind of clarified the options that you have in
the menu, and we've assigned hot keys so you can quickly go
through that dialogue if you have a few
dozen files that need synchronization.
And even from this dialogue we can now
exclude this file from future syncs.
I don't care about this file, just don't synchronize this,
that's the exclude from syncing
Command-e at the lower level.
Still, there will be users that are challenged by this.
We tried to make it very simple,
but they will be challenged.
So one of the things you gain when you add the
Manage Client on an app to the Workgroup Manager is
in the HomeSync category there, you gain
options for controlling this conflict dialogue.
And you can basically suppress the conflict
dialogue and make the decision for the user.
You can say the mobile account on the laptop always
wins, or the network account on the server always wins,
and don't show that dialogue and confuse my users.
Again, this is a little easier to set up, we
could set that earlier in Tiger and Leopard,
but the manifest UI makes that a little more controllable.
We get asked a lot about best practices,
What do I synchronize?
What don't I synchronize?
and there's really no generic answer.
It really depends on how much storage
space you have, how much network bandwidth,
what your users expect to be synchronized.
A good rule of thumb, at least for education that we've
sorted out, is to synchronize the document on the desktop
because those are the files that we care
most about, and that users care actually.
Especially on the desktop, we tend to
put things we work on, on the desktop.
And most admins exclude the media folders; Movies,
Pictures, and Music, not because they're not important,
but they tend to be very big, and we certainly don't
need copies of everybody's iTunes library on our server.
We'd have to sell you storage for that.
And the point is no matter what you do and which rules
you set up, you need to inform the users about that,
the users have to be aware this is a synchronized folder
and things that are in here won't be synchronized.
There is the possibility in the sync rules to
exclude by wildcards, which gives me the option
to synchronize by extensions, by file type.
So the temptation is there to synchronize, not synchronize
.mov files or .wmv files, which seems like a great idea
until you run into the following problem that
a lot of applications, including Keynote 08,
store their files in a package which is actually
a folder, and if something drags a movie
into their Keynote presentation, the movie
will be selectively not synchronized,
and they will end up with a broken Keynote presentation.
Keynote 09 and iWork 09 actually changed the file format,
they now use a big binary file
format because it had other issues.
But old Keynote documents or third party
and other applications still use the
package format because it is very flexible.
And if you synchronize by file format, you will break
those packages or you might break those packages.
Background synchronization, it can put some load on
your server and you probably want to distribute that.
What we've found from our experience is that
higher background synchronization frequencies,
shorter background cycles, actually distribute the
load much better over the server than longer ones.
Especially in classroom deployments or labs
where you have a certain rhythm anyway,
like an hourly rhythm when everybody opens their laptops and
closes it again, you want to select background sync cycles
that are much shorter than the classroom cycle
and the order of a few minutes, 7 to 12 minutes.
Another option is to switch to manual synchronization
which basically takes the load out of the server
until the user decides, Well now is a good time to
synchronize my stuff with the server and make sure that it's
up there, but again, you have to train the users.
It's a manual process which usually
means it doesn't get done ever, so...
[ Pause ]
>> Yeah. The same with the logout/login sync or the
preference sync, certain files can not be synchronized
when the user is logged in because they will
be open, they will be used all the time.
So if you want to synchronize, if they're important to
you and you want them on the server an copied from machine
to machine, you have to train the
users to login and logout occasionally,
which may be especially hard with laptop users.
This is my Hasselhoff/Baywatch slide.
[ Laughter ]
>> Eventually you may come to the point where you decide if
you've been experimenting with the HomeSync and you decide
for some reason you want to disable
it, you don't want to use it anymore,
the mobile account part is good enough for you.
And a lot of people run into this, when they
disable it, they go into Workgroup Manager
and switch the management from always to never.
And then synchronization isn't turned off, because all you
did is you turned off the management of the synchronization
and the client, since it's now
unmanaged, will keep doing what it did.
So what you have to do is you go into Workgroup
Manager and disable all the sync options.
And just to be on the safe side, you
probably want to go into the next tab
and set the background synchronization to manually.
And that's the way to completely
turn off the synchronization.
Some applications, and I really don't want to
dis Firefox here, it's a great application.
But Firefox doesn't respect our preferences
database, our preferences system,
they use their own because it's
a cross platform application.
So I can't manage Firefox using Managed
Preferences in Workgroup Manager.
The solution to that, obviously if I have a distributed
system with lots of people and different home directories,
it's to manage the user with the template, so I go
back into the Systems/Library/User template folder
and put the important folder for
the Firefox preferences in there.
And there's other applications that do that.
Another thing that's important for HomeSync is applications
that have large binary files, large binary databases,
Entourage is one of them, it stores
everything in one big database.
And if I get one email, it will synchronize
the entire database back up to the server.
You probably want to exclude those
from your synchronization.
Email, it's OK to exclude it because IMAP will probably take
care of your email synchronization from client to client,
but you'll have to find solutions for
that, and they're different depending
on the application and what you're doing.
The same for VM solutions, parallels, and VMWare fusion,
they're switching to a file format which is one big,
huge whopping disk image, but it's drive to disk
image, but even those drives are still big enough
that they will probably extend your
synchronization process too much.
And then finally there's the temptation or the
desire to put your home directories on Xsan.
And this used to be a big no, don't do it, we're working it,
they're slow improvements, but
we're really improving the system.
If you're using network home directories,
Xsan works well as a backup medium.
We've done a lot of optimizations in Xsan 2, 2.1,
and Xsan 2.2 that will improve the
performance with lots of small files.
Portable home directories are an extra challenge.
As I said earlier, when I do the HomeSync for portable home
directories, the client will scan the network home directory
for the changes, and that puts a
huge load on the metadata controller.
And if you have multiple users coming in through
multiple file servers connected to the Xsan,
your metadata controller is going to be the bottleneck.
Xsan 2.1 in Leopard does not support FSEvents,
so we can't use server-side file tracking.
Xsan 2.2 will support server-side file
tracking, but each server that's attached
to the Xsan will only see changes that the server has done.
So you really want to make sure that one user sticks
to one server even across sessions over multiple days,
so you could use server-side file tracking.
And in general, we've seen that the performance with lots of
small files of Xsan is less than in direct attached mode.
So unless there's a huge requirement for a growable
file system, we tend to recommend direct attach mode
in carving the storage into luns [phonetic]
rather than Xsan, for home directories.
Another question I get very often and I actually got it
this morning, or I didn't get it but the people in one
of the other sessions this morning got it is, Well
this entire synchronization thing sounds really great
and I'd like to use it, but all of my users
already have a laptop and they have local accounts.
And I would like to take that data and
move it to be a portable home directory.
So I'm going to use Tony's admin account that's on an
external drive and show how you can promote a local user
to a mobile account or even a portable home directory.
Since we wanted to show you the completely
empty login window earlier in the demo,
I don't actually have a local account,
so I need to create one
And as usual, when you quickly need to create a
user, you have to think of a name very quickly.
Steve Hamon flashed over my slide earlier, so I can use...
>> [Tony] Do an anagram.
>> [Armin] You think I should do an anagram of that?
Let's see, Steve Hamon used an anagram on Sal yesterday.
Coincidently, I have a file here...
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
>> Honestly, when I look at these, I don't know, it
may be my English, but I don't think we can use these.
Oh, this one is great, "have amnesty."
That's fitting.
So...
[ Laughter ]
>> [Tony] [inaudible]
>> So I'm creating a local account and now I'm assuming that
this local account will live on this machine for a while
to create data, put everything in the home directory.
We'll just work with that for a while, and
I can go in and I can do an ID on that user.
And it has a UID of 501 because
this was a completely empty machine.
So it's probably a local user, that's
always a nice way of checking this.
I can go into the user's account and see that this
is my Home folder obviously as we'd expect it to be.
So this has worked for a while
and then now I want to change this
into a network managed mobile or portable home directory.
And actually the UI helps me with
that, it's really not that difficult.
When I go in and delete the local account,
because that's obviously the first thing I need
to do to make room for the network account.
It will give me the option of what I want to do with
home directory, do I want to archive it in a disk image,
do I just don't want to change the Home folder,
don't touch it, or do I want to delete the folder?
In this case I want to select don't
change the Home folder and I say, OK,
and it will remove the user directory database, but it
will leave the home directory more or less untouched.
If I go in and do the LS again, I see that it added
the deleted word to the Home folder just to notify me
that this is an inactive Home folder,
and I don't want to use that.
So this is the first thing I want to change, I want
to rename the Home folder, well the first thing I want
to check is I need obviously to
prepare my network home directory.
So coincidentally if I do an ID on amnesty right
now, I actually have a network user account,
you can see it's a 1030 ID, this is hosted on my server, and
this is ready to swoop in and be the mobile for this user.
So I need to adapt the Home folder name - oh wait - to
match the short name of the user, and I need to make sure -
because I can see up here now that
this Home folder is orphaned.
The owner is the user ID 501, this is
an orphan folder, nobody really owns it.
And when the user amnesty logs in, the network user
amnesty now, I want that to take over possession
of the Home folder, I need to prepare the Home folder.
And that's it, that's all I have to do.
I've prepared the Home folder with the existing data.
And please do a backup of this before you
start messing around with a user's data.
[ Laughter ]
>> But I've prepared the Home folder to be converted into
a mobile account, and I if I now logout and log back in,
the login as amnesty - have amnesty, the system will
detect that there's an existing Home folder and it's primed
for this user, and it will just take that
and stop the synchronization process.
Now if you have data - hang on
If you have data on both the server and the client,
this will generate a ton of synchronization conflicts,
so you'll probably want to find a solution
around that, and make sure that either the server
or the client is empty before you attempt that.
In this case, I'm getting the dialogue, we can suppress the
dialogue with Manage Client, but I'm just going to go ahead
and say I want to do a mobile account,
and it will now connect to the server
and start the first synchronization process.
With that, I'm going to hand it over to Dave Douglas, who
is a systems engineer for Southern California Education,
and he has a small school district
he wants to talk about with us today.
>> [Dave] Thanks, Armin.
[ Applause ]
>> Great job.
>> Thanks for not singing, it'll work.
[ Laughter ]
>> So we've gotten a great overview about
home directory strategies and theories.
I'd like to take a minute to try to put
a face to different folks and customers
that have been leveraging these technologies,
and some of the specific reasons why.
I do manage this school district in Los Angeles, it's the
second largest in the country, second largest by population,
largest in geography, we take in
at least 1,000 units every month.
And as we're seeing all these systems come in the
management style, it's completely up to each school
to determine how they're going to implement
the technology, how they're going to choose
which technical coordinator is going to do that.
Some schools are Active Directory, some schools
are running Open Directory, some are unmanaged.
And so as we looked at different things
that were going on, we wanted to go ahead
and profile some of the different environments.
Now again, these are all different education sites,
but I hope as you look at these different settings
and the reasonings behind them, you'll see
potential linkings between maybe your organization
that may not be education, but the
relevancy to how it can help your users
because ultimately these home directories are here for them.
So I'll go ahead and go to the next slide.
[ Laughter ]
>> Thank you, Steve.
Tony, you've got to take more care of these slides.
[ Laughter ]
>> All right, so guest accounts.
So you know a lot of different guest accounts,
don't really need to go into much more detail.
Specifically, the school that we were seeing
a lot of success, one of many different ones,
is a school called Wilmington Middle School, we've got
2200 students, three XServes running the infrastructure,
about 400 Macs, and a mix of wired and
wireless network, but that's kind of normal,
What's special about this particular school?
At Wilmington we have a huge growing thriving
community both of parents and folks living
around the school that do not speak English.
And as they come to drop off their kids and other things,
they all of a sudden recognize all the
resources and infrastructure that's there.
And so the school has gone ahead and adopted an
English language learning school that's after hours.
And so if we have parents or grandparents
or other folks coming in,
the school has decided to service these
folks and help them learn English.
Of course when they're doing this work we want
to purge what they've done after the fact,
and so the guest account is a nice solid fit.
To manage the experience of course,
we're leveraging Workgroup Manager
and all the different pieces of Managed Preferences.
As we were going through different
configurations last year during our config time,
we didn't know about this guest account feature and
the multiple guest accounts, so what we'll be looking
at doing this summer as we look at refreshing the rollout
is specifically looking at using the mobile accounts
with an expiration set of zero so that
we can have different user experiences
so that we can manage having a different doc
setting, even potentially having different languages
so that we can have the operating system run in this
language or that language, and be able to manage all of that
without having to be burdened by the single
computer group and the single guest account.
Mobile accounts.
Again, we've had plenty of background on mobile accounts.
The school I wanted to talk about
in terms of the actual usage
of mobile accounts is King Middle School,
we've got 2500 students, 750 Macs.
We have 400 students in a magnet program focusing
on math and science, and they're working on carts.
The network is wired and wireless, but they only have
two XServes, and the network is fairly slow and limited.
And as we looked at the different solutions, it ultimately
came to a decision that mobile accounts were going to fit,
and that was ultimately because of speed.
I know all of us have been reading, we're
doing our Twitter, our Facebook, and email,
and our own level of attention deficit disorder is getting
incredibly high, and every second feels like two minutes.
And this can have a real impact to the learning
environment, and our users have less and less patience.
So how do we serve users to get them in and learning
or getting them productive as quickly as possible?
And so the mobile account really ended up being a win here.
Not only do we of course get that ability to get them in and
learning quickly, but we still get all the directory help.
We can manage the passwords, we can
even manage acceptable use policies.
If you're not authorized to use the
machines, you can't use them until then.
We still have all that flexibility.
Of course we're not leveraging synchronization, and
so in this case here, our data is somewhat at risk
because they were just sitting on that machine,
I have to visit that machine each time.
If I do cross between different systems, I've got to take
advantage of their USB thumb drive or I've got to go ahead
and use the file servers to move data back and forth.
The nice part of course is that if the system were
to go offline, we were doing something in the field,
doing science work, we don't have to
worry about the network going down.
Redirected accounts.
Redirected accounts has been very popular for a
major switch for schools, it's a big win for us.
In 2008 summertime, we ended up going ahead
and it was a full wholesale platform change.
We ended up getting 550 Macs and all the PCs
went out, and it was time to switch platforms.
So you can imagine all the different
challenges and concerns about Oh,
how am I going to do this, what are the different choices?
We have 2400 students to take care of.
The implementation is almost all
wired, but some pockets are wireless.
And we have five XServes to go ahead
and try and power this infrastructure.
So why did redirected accounts work for them?
Well they're coming from Windows, and there's a lot of
different challenges in this bit tectonic style of change.
How do we make this comfortable for them as they're
trying to work through all the different challenges,
professional development, helping all of the
different people deal with this big change.
Redirected accounts of course makes it very
comfortable for the Windows admin who had
to learn a whole new language essentially
in terms of server management.
When we look at our Windows profile and our Mac home
directory, there are some distinct differences of course.
Most of us, if we've have any exposure or deal with
actively managing Windows systems, we understand the concept
of Windows profile, and we have a My Documents folder.
With the Windows profile of course, I've got
maybe My Desktop folder, preferences and settings
and quite often in Windows deployments
are disposable, we throw them away.
If they're local to that system,
then we'll just keep purging those.
Of course, at the same time we're going to map
that Z drive or R drive and we're going to have
that My Documents folder mapped so that if I
needing, you know, everything that they're going
to do, their My Documents folder is there.
Of course in Mac OS X it's all inclusive in
the giant umbrella of the one home directory.
With redirected accounts of course, we can provide
that same type of experience where we can move things
like library Safari caches, put that into a disposable
location while making sure that everything that is supposed
to be on the server from the Windows admin
perspective is right where it belongs.
So My Desktop, My Documents folder, those
are on the server as they should be.
We didn't want to forfeit the ability iLife.
So as we looked at OK, what are we going to do?
we went ahead and moved these media folders
to Users/Shared and then the %@ sign.
That gave us an ability so that if you
did have a desire to do multi-media,
go back to that system and at least you can do the media.
You can deal with your video editing projects
and not have to necessarily fill the server up.
And again, part of the other pieces of why we went ahead
with redirected accounts is also we didn't have to deal
with the user training of conflict syncs.
Because one of the things, if you think about, it's very
tempting to go to the Managed Preferences manifest -
I want to say the local home always wins.
In practice, I've found that typically
you're wrong about 20 percent of the time.
And so it's a question of who was wrong at that time,
what data got stomped on that really
didn't need to be stomped on.
So something to be weary of if we go
ahead and just answer that question,
I'm really excited we did not have this luxury at
the Quick Look option during conflict resolution.
I think that's going to be a major
win to help us more seriously look
at using the synchronization of portable homes.
Talking about portable homes, back to Wilmington.
This time we're talking about the 93 faculty members
here, and this is really because everything that's going
on with these teachers is, they end up getting
all of the work the students are producing.
So whether it be podcasts, essays, everything,
it all ends up on that teacher workstation.
The teacher workstations end up going home,
these little laptops and little MacBooks.
And then on top of that of course, they may need to
use something in the wired lab and have a resource,
it's only available there, and they
don't want to have to move that around.
So a combination of network, portable
homes, but the important thing
of course is we can have everything backed up.
And I want to reiterate of course,
portable homes is not a backup solution in
and of itself, it's a delayed sync mirror.
I delete something here, it's deleted on the server.
I sure hope you had an archive, right,
because the idea is when we're dealing
with backups is I need redundancy combined with an archive.
So as we're looking at portable homes, it's a part of
the solution, not an exclusive solution in and of itself.
Finally, I want to talk about external accounts.
This is a very exciting opportunity that we've
been seeing specifically at Garfield High School.
If anyone has seen the movie "Stand and
Deliver," this is the high school from that movie.
We have 4,000 users, 330 Macs, 500
students are actively using USB thumb drives
as their home directory, and they only have two XServes.
[ Laughter ]
>> Well why?
Well it comes down to, they don't have a lot of resources.
It's a Legacy network, their wireless network hasn't come
in, they're still waiting for some of their federal funds
and their rollout of different pieces, and there's
no ability to make - even if they spent 15 grand
on centralized storage, put 14 terabytes
in a cabinet, nobody can get to it quickly.
So it ends up being a poor investment
to put the resources there.
Instead, using the USB thumb drives we can go
ahead and put that storage, those gigabytes,
in the student's hands and let them login.
Of course at Garfield today, we've
got a couple teacher's assistants,
students who are off hours, and
their job is to format thumb drives.
[ Laughter ]
>> I got halfway writing a script for it and then it
was like I don't know who's going to put the thumb drive
in at the wrong time and format their thumb
drive, so we've decided we're just going
to let the kids learn how to use
disk utility really, really well.
And so...
[ Laughter ]
>> ...they're busily formatting those thumb drives.
Obviously when we get to Snow Leopard
it's fantastic to hear that we'll be able
to use FAT32 drives, so that can really help.
And it really brings me to my last point
about the power of these USB external drives,
especially in an environment where you're low on resources.
So that's the demo here.
I want to go ahead and even though I saw a bunch of hands
who have done this, there were still plenty of hands
that hadn't seen this, so I think
it's still relevant to show you.
When one of these students at Garfield goes ahead and
they're done for the day and they take their thumb drive
with them and go home, What is the experience
of that thumb drive when I get home to my Mac?
So I have my thumb drive here, I'm
going to go ahead and plug this in.
Now this Mac has, I could take the time, I'm not going to,
to show you that directory utility
has no concept over the server.
This is a system that's out of the domain, it's not
bound, it's not even on the same physical network,
and it's mimicking what you'd see
out of a system that's at home.
And so now what we've found is we've found a user by the
name of Ken, he's on this external disk, and it's like,
Did you want to allow this person to use this system?
If I click Allow, it's going to ask me for admin
credentials, and admin credentials are the domain.
The admin credentials of this iMac or MacBook
that's sitting at home in the kitchen.
And so in this case I'll go ahead and
authenticate with the local admin of this unit.
And with any luck here I'm going
to go ahead and see - there's Ken.
And then what's the password for Ken?
The password is the synchronized
cached password from my domain login.
So I still have that control, so the password that I
set is still there, the Managed Preference settings
that I went ahead and said that Ken's doc has to do this or
that, all of that is still intact even though I'm sitting
on a USB thumb drive on a system
that knows nothing about my domain.
So let me go ahead and authenticate.
I've logged in, my doc is over on the
left, and I have my experience the way
that I want using this USB external account.
All right.
[ Applause ]
>> [Tony] We have Mark Malone to talk to you
on of course the Apple and training URLs.